README.md, before:

# sniffglue [![Build Status][travis-img]][travis] [![Crates.io][crates-img]][crates]

[travis-img]:   https://travis-ci.org/kpcyrd/sniffglue.svg?branch=master
[travis]:       https://travis-ci.org/kpcyrd/sniffglue
[crates-img]:   https://img.shields.io/crates/v/sniffglue.svg
[crates]:       https://crates.io/crates/sniffglue

sniffglue is a network sniffer written in rust. Network packets are parsed concurrently
using a thread pool to utilize all cpu cores. Project goals are that you can
run sniffglue securely on untrusted networks and that it must not crash
when processing packets. The output should be as useful as possible by default.

![screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)

## Usage

    sniffglue enp0s25

## Installation

There is an official package available for archlinux:

    pacman -S sniffglue

To build from source, make sure you have libpcap and libseccomp installed,
Debian/Ubuntu: `libpcap-dev libseccomp-dev`,
Archlinux: `libpcap libseccomp`.

    cargo install sniffglue

## Protocols

- [X] ethernet
- [X] ipv4
- [ ] ipv6
- [X] arp
- [X] tcp
- [X] udp
- [ ] icmp
- [X] http
- [X] tls
- [X] dns
- [X] dhcp
- [X] cjdns eth beacons
- [X] ssdp
- [X] dropbox beacons
- [ ] 802.11

## Docker

You can build sniffglue as a docker image to debug container setups. The image
is currently about 11.1MB. It is recommended to push it to your own registry.

    docker build -t sniffglue .
    docker run -it --init --rm --net=host sniffglue eth0

## Security

To report a security issue please contact kpcyrd on ircs://irc.hackint.org.

### Seccomp

To ensure a compromised process doesn't compromise the system, sniffglue uses
seccomp to restrict the syscalls that can be used after the process started.
This is done in two stages, first at the very beginning (directly after
env\_logger initialized) and once after the sniffer has been setup, but before
packets are read from the network.

### Hardening

During the second stage, there's also some general hardening that is applied
before all unneeded syscalls are finally disabled. Those are system specific,
so a configuration file is read from `/etc/sniffglue.conf`. This config
file specifies an empty directory for `chroot` and an unprivileged account
in `user` that is used to drop root privileges.

### boxxy-rs

This project includes a small [boxxy-rs] based shell that can be used to
explore the sandbox at various stages during and after initialization. This is
also used by travis to ensure the sandbox actually blocks syscalls.

    cargo run --example boxxy

[boxxy-rs]: https://github.com/kpcyrd/boxxy-rs

### Reproducible builds

This project is tested using reprotest. Currently the following variations are
excluded:

- `-time` - needed because the crates.io cert expires in the future
- `-domain_host` - requires root for unshare(2) and has been excluded

Don't forget to install the build dependencies.

    ci/reprotest.sh

### Fuzzing

The packet processing of sniffglue can be fuzzed using [cargo-fuzz].
Everything you should need is provided in the `fuzz/` directory that is
distributed along with its source code. Please note that this program links
to libpcap which is not included in the current fuzzing configuration.

    cargo fuzz run read_packet

[cargo-fuzz]: https://github.com/rust-fuzz/cargo-fuzz

## License

GPLv3+

Commit message:

Add cargo-deb note in README.md

README.md, after:

# sniffglue [![Build Status][travis-img]][travis] [![Crates.io][crates-img]][crates]

[travis-img]:   https://travis-ci.org/kpcyrd/sniffglue.svg?branch=master
[travis]:       https://travis-ci.org/kpcyrd/sniffglue
[crates-img]:   https://img.shields.io/crates/v/sniffglue.svg
[crates]:       https://crates.io/crates/sniffglue

sniffglue is a network sniffer written in rust. Network packets are parsed concurrently
using a thread pool to utilize all cpu cores. Project goals are that you can
run sniffglue securely on untrusted networks and that it must not crash
when processing packets. The output should be as useful as possible by default.

![screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)

## Usage

    sniffglue enp0s25

## Installation

There is an official package available for archlinux:

    pacman -S sniffglue

To build from source, make sure you have libpcap and libseccomp installed,
Debian/Ubuntu: `libpcap-dev libseccomp-dev`,
Archlinux: `libpcap libseccomp`.

    cargo install sniffglue

Or you can build a Debian package via [cargo-deb](https://github.com/mmstick/cargo-deb):

    cargo deb

## Protocols

- [X] ethernet
- [X] ipv4
- [ ] ipv6
- [X] arp
- [X] tcp
- [X] udp
- [ ] icmp
- [X] http
- [X] tls
- [X] dns
- [X] dhcp
- [X] cjdns eth beacons
- [X] ssdp
- [X] dropbox beacons
- [ ] 802.11

## Docker

You can build sniffglue as a docker image to debug container setups. The image
is currently about 11.1MB. It is recommended to push it to your own registry.

    docker build -t sniffglue .
    docker run -it --init --rm --net=host sniffglue eth0

## Security

To report a security issue please contact kpcyrd on ircs://irc.hackint.org.

### Seccomp

To ensure a compromised process doesn't compromise the system, sniffglue uses
seccomp to restrict the syscalls that can be used after the process started.
This is done in two stages, first at the very beginning (directly after
env\_logger initialized) and once after the sniffer has been setup, but before
packets are read from the network.

### Hardening

During the second stage, there's also some general hardening that is applied
before all unneeded syscalls are finally disabled. Those are system specific,
so a configuration file is read from `/etc/sniffglue.conf`. This config
file specifies an empty directory for `chroot` and an unprivileged account
in `user` that is used to drop root privileges.

### boxxy-rs

This project includes a small [boxxy-rs] based shell that can be used to
explore the sandbox at various stages during and after initialization. This is
also used by travis to ensure the sandbox actually blocks syscalls.

    cargo run --example boxxy

[boxxy-rs]: https://github.com/kpcyrd/boxxy-rs

### Reproducible builds

This project is tested using reprotest. Currently the following variations are
excluded:

- `-time` - needed because the crates.io cert expires in the future
- `-domain_host` - requires root for unshare(2) and has been excluded

Don't forget to install the build dependencies.

    ci/reprotest.sh

### Fuzzing

The packet processing of sniffglue can be fuzzed using [cargo-fuzz].
Everything you should need is provided in the `fuzz/` directory that is
distributed along with its source code. Please note that this program links
to libpcap which is not included in the current fuzzing configuration.

    cargo fuzz run read_packet

[cargo-fuzz]: https://github.com/rust-fuzz/cargo-fuzz

## License

GPLv3+
