.TH SNIFFGLUE "1" "May 2018" "sniffglue 0.7.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sniffglue \- secure multithreaded packet sniffer

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sniffglue
[\fB\-vdrpVh\fR]
.IR device

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sniffglue
is a network sniffer written in rust. Network packets are parsed concurrently
using a thread pool to utilize all cpu cores. Project goals are that you can
run \fBsniffglue\fR securely on untrusted networks and that it must not crash
when processing packets. The output should be as useful as possible by default.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show more packets (maximum: 4)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-detailed\fR
Detailed output
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints help information
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-promisc\fR
Set \fIdevice\fR to promisc
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-read\fR
Open \fIdevice\fR as pcap file
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints version information. If \fB\-r\fR was specified, open as pcap file
instead

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Sniff and print interesting packets in compact mode from \fIenp0s25\fR:
.RS
.nf
\fBsniffglue enp0s25\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Read a dump from \fIsniff.pcap\fR and display all packets in detailed mode:
.RS
.nf
\fBsniffglue -dxr sniff.pcap\fP
.fi
.RE

.SH PROTOCOLS
.BR ethernet,
.BR ipv4,
.BR arp,
.BR tcp,
.BR udp,
.BR http,
.BR tls,
.BR dns,
.BR dhcp,
.BR ssdp,
.BR dropbox beacons

.SH SECURITY
To report a security issue please contact kpcyrd on ircs://irc.hackint.org.

.SS SECCOMP
.LP
To ensure a compromised process doesn't compromise the system, sniffglue uses
seccomp to restrict the syscalls that can be used after the process started.
This is done in two stages, first at the very beginning (directly after
env\_logger initialized) and once after the sniffer has been setup, but before
packets are read from the network.

.SS HARDENING
.LP
During the second stage, there's also some general hardening that is applied
before all unneeded syscalls are finally disabled. Those are system specific,
so a configuration file is read from \fB/etc/sniffglue.conf\fR. This config
file specifies an empty directory for \fBchroot\fR and an unprivileged account
in \fBuser\fR that is used to drop root privileges.

.SS FUZZING
.LP
The packet processing of \fBsniffglue\fR can be fuzzed using \fIcargo-fuzz\fR.
Everything you should need is provided in the \fIfuzz/\fR directory that is
distributed along with its source code. Please note that this program links
to \fIlibpcap\fR which is not included in the current fuzzing configuration.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pcap(3PCAP),
.BR seccomp(2)

.SH AUTHORS
This program was originally written and is currently maintained by kpcyrd.
Bugs and patches are welcome on github:
.LP
.RS
.I https://github.com/kpcyrd/sniffglue
.RE
